for
for for
huh
h
[Laughter]
h h
[Music]
h
[Applause]
[Music]
Wow nature is so
beautiful mhm
sorry that's my dog it's okay hey
everyone
um so something
funny uh
oh something funny that's happening
is my mini controller is not being
recognized by my
computer um usually to fix the issue I
need to restart my
computer but I I think I'm just going to
um forget
that I'm allowed to use my keyboard
today so that's
okay um I about to
undeen and here two others with Badd and
P don't know if they'll talk but if they
do that's you're not hearing other
voices out of nowhere they are
real very
good whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa hey
hey no
no you're the the wolves have you riled
up it's okay they're not actually real
those are fake
wolves are you fuging with me I'm kind
of a little bit yeah those weren't real
[__] those weren't real
unfortunately but um you know
someone said D I swear I heard the pizza
plays high sound yeah it's cuz baddy has
the the Roblox
soundboard so that's good
um so that's actually just the Rick Ross
grunt so that's that's what that is hi
chat Welcome to My Stream I'm streaming
today wait I've been stream not SN not
stream sniped I've been my ship has been
boarded you've taken my ship hi welcome
to my stream everyone today we're g to
be making
music wait I need to wait I have my yes
okay fun fact
though I actually slightly know how to
I slightly know how to play keys on
typing keyboard because that's what I
used to do when I was on my laptop only
[Music]
so
um I
uh prob me one
second there was an ancient spirit
inside of my body that had to release
oh um we got r that there was uh for the
super Pony world that I wrote in 2016 I
actually made most of that album in like
the school cafeteria in my high
school and I didn't have any other
controllers with me I had a Launchpad at
the time but I didn't like bring it with
me or anything so
I just use my laptop keyboard but I
still like to perform things like by
hand by hoof because um drawing midi
notes is like
kind of a chore
sometimes especially if you're trying to
do anything realistic sounding so
usually it's just easier to play
something for real but I didn't have a
keyboard with me at school so I kind of
just learned slightly how to deal with
having a typing
[Music]
keyboard so if you hear any like crazy
stuff on uh super py world
2016 uh it was probably written with
like a laptop like keyboard how do I use
Ableton I don't know I mean I can speed
edit it in able 10 like sorry Rick Ross
you're going away like if I have to make
a super simple cord progression like by
default it's like pretty easy so
[Music]
feel like they should be in a different
orderers like this
[Music]
so like I would say that I'm pretty
reasonably fast with make doing midi on
uh Ableton I mostly prefer to play the
actual Keys cuz like I've been playing
piano since I was what five or something
my actual first instrument I've said
before is like the drums
but this
I have a I have
a USB hub and all of the slots are
filled but I don't
know if I need them all plugged in I
think one of them one of one of the
things plugged into my USB hub is my
record
player so I don't know which one it is
and I kind of want to unplug one of them
and I'm scared I'm going to unplug
something crucial but I don't remember
what's where because I'm smart um what
was I saying before uh I prefer to
play keyboards because I've playing
since I was like five
um it might sound counterintuitive but
it's so much easier to write music by
playing it for real instead of like
composing it in MIDI and stuff for me
personally cuz if I hear the thing in my
head I just I just play it if it's in if
I have to write it out it's
like what is the chord structure how am
I actually like voicing this uh how do I
do the how do I have this with other
instruments playing and stuff like it's
kind of annoying so I don't really like
writing midi but I'm fast at it if I if
I am doing it um able to introduce like
a new chord generation thing it's kind
of fun but I know how to do everything
for myself so I don't find it too useful
other than like finding ideas that I
wouldn't normally come up with anyway um
it also is like limited to I think
Triads which is also very limiting cuz I
very much prefer Jazz stuff so like the
chords I would play are going to be
like all all these notes all at once you
can't hear it right now because this my
mini controller is like not working with
Ableton right now for some reason uh if
I don't start up Ableton and turn on my
keyboard when I first turn on my
computer in the morning um Ableton will
just like not recognize the controller
and to get it to work to restart and I'm
going to I'm not going to restart so
we're just doing it the funny way am I
liking the push three I actually have
not been using it much but I would like
to use it much
more uh
actually well I like with with the push
three I really like the after touch it
feels a lot more
realistic than like a lot of other after
touch enabled keyboards because it's
like not a key bed it's like kind of
silicon stuff so um I'm going to run my
hoof behind my
thing and see if there's like an open
USB
my I'm sorry if that made a lot of
sense that's a thing can I unplug my
mouse put it there it's unplugging the
computer I'm yeah system shut down
Jarvis you know what to do
SK I think I think this is
oh did I do
it no I absolutely did not do it what
went wrong
here I have a engling of a feeling that
this is not a USB slot so I explain what
I'm doing right now I'm moving
my mouse USB to
another slot but that doesn't feel like
it's
SL which makes me wonder if this not a
USB slot I can't actually see behind
your um okay well what does
this what are you going
to you're going out there
[Music]
um are you
freaky
maybe freaky Fazbear oh okay I
definitely think that's my record player
cable and I can unplug that cuz I do not
need
that okay is everything is everything
working everything good can you
click
click now I'm going to test the theory
live on
stream we're gonna find out if this is
an Ableton problem or if this is a
Novation
problem because I have another
controller here it's a drum controller I
just got
recently and we'll
see if Ableton recognizes it if Ableton
recognizes it this is 100% a Novation
problem if Ableton doesn't recognize it
uh
oh uh this is an ovation problem this is
a keyboard problem uh
oh so
uh it's a it's a keyboard problem
because this drum
pen is
working so
Novation
okay do you have any good
recommendations for a good Mini keyboard
on a budget
so this is a great time to tell you um
personally
speaking
get a
cheaper controller if you can
because I got um oh when when would it
have been I think it would have been
three or four years ago I got the
current music keyboard that I have now
it's the Novation 49 SL Mark II
and I was excited about it because it
seemed like something that would be
super useful to
me
um because it has midi aftertouch it has
like the drum pad things here it has the
four knobs I was like oh I could like
set up macros for the knobs and
everything has the volume sliders it's
like great for performance stuff um but
I don't actually take this to perform
things um if I do do live shows at some
point again I'm probably bringing the
push three because that's so much better
of a Performance Tool and then i' I'd
like one a rigid like MA audio oxygen
keyboard for like you know playing the
keys for real
um this keyboard I've had it for yeah
about I think since 2020 I don't I don't
like this
keyboard um but I haven't gotten rid of
it yet because I it was kind of
expensive like the more expensive mini
controller I was like I want it to work
I wanted to like I want to use it still
like I paid for it
um but it I kind of hate it the volume
sliders suck the pads are actually like
really rigid and don't feel good to me
the knobs are like endless encoders sure
but they're also really rigid and also
it's such a hassle to try and get it to
map with everything anyway um and here's
my one of my least favorite problems um
because this was 49 keys and I I trained
on an 88 key grand piano um to play
keyboard um I need to transpose the
keyboard sometimes to like get to
different octaves so that's why you see
me reach over here to the left sometimes
it's cuz like I need the keyboard to
shift up an octave for just a moment
whereas on a real you know 88 key
keyboard I'd be able to just reach over
to wherever it is so much easier um
this octave switcher key is like [__]
up it's broken it it only registers an
octave change
like I would say 50% or less of the time
and this this was a problem day one when
I when I took this out of the box this
was a problem from day
one
um and it's because these buttons are
silicone it's like those those really
gross silicone buttons that are like not
fun to touch
whatsoever um especially in a form
factor like this where it's like an all
plastic case
anyway um an all plastic case like is
advantageous because uh you can kind of
throw it around and just be like
whatever but um this would be so much
better if it were like coated in
something stronger I do not like the
silicone buttons on this thing they're
all kind of like I they pick pick up so
much Gunk that I hate not only that but
then you get to the screen over here
which I know you can't see very well or
you can't see it at all but segmented
into one two 3 four five like micro
displays instead of one continuous
display which is also really annoying
cuz like why why can't it just be one
continuous display instead of like
segmented into five little rectangles
like I hate that
um and a new thing that's been popping
up for me is this this mod
wheel um when I get almost to the top of
the mod wheel it like resets to zero
until I move it to the top and then it
goes all the way to the top again like
there's this Dead Zone near the top of
this mod wheel where it just doesn't
register it thinks it's going back to
zero so long story
short don't get this one don't get the
Novation SL Mark III 49 key or whatever
it's not it's not good for the and not
only that like it the build quality is
bad for me I don't even use the features
it comes
with I it has like this like faux
Launchpad situation right here and you
can use it as like a micro Launchpad but
I'm so serious let's talk price for a
second this keyboard $600 this keyboard
was
$600 it's semi-weighted it has after
touch but I don't need this I don't
really want this the only reason I use
it is cuz I have it already um if you're
getting into music whether you're
experienced or not experienced um I
would actually recommend don't spend
more than $200 on a keyboard unless it
comes with like unless it's like a
synth like do like if it's a mini
controller I really cannot think of a
lot of like use cases for it to be so
decked out I don't use this and I bet
even people who like have huge synth
arrays do not even need the features
here because like for
example um you could take check this out
you could get one of these the uh the SP
404 Mark I for less money than this
keyboard and this is an entire music
Studio Effects box you can plug a guitar
into it and get a virtual pedal for it
um you can use it as a midi controller
for for ablon or whatever and you can
use it in Standalone it works on
batteries it works on AC and it works on
USB charging um you can assign these
macros to something in your doll if you
want to if you don't want to use it for
like live effect stuff you can get this
um oh I'm sorry this is also an audio
interface so if you don't have an audio
interface this is a cheap way of get
getting into the audio interface
business so long story short if you're
going to spend that much money on
something for music don't let it be this
keyboard let it be the SP 404 um awesome
[__] thing SP 44 is the most goed
thing in the universe but um so what I
actually recommend I would recommend
looking at 49 key keyboards in the $200
range um if it's 49 [__] and it's like
going lower than $100 then the quality
might be questionable but as a general
rule 49 [__] $200 that's like the sweet
spot you don't need I I don't need all
the [__] on here you don't need all the
[__] on here don't get the 49 SL Mark
III or whatever the [__] it's called um
so
yeah um I don't hate Novation in fact in
fact if you want something that just
works you know it's not like the perfect
form factor but just works just get the
Launchpad mini by the same company it's
actually amazing the new Launchpad
lineup is [__] sick it's thinner
feels a lot less like rigid than the
Launchpad which you might not like if
you like rigid like kind of tough stuff
but at the same time it's so much more
portable it's really Compact and it
feels really good on the hands like the
the launch the new Launchpad pads are
wonderful so Launchpad good if you need
a keyboard go around the $200 range so I
might sell this at some point
so
but this recently came
out um and this is sorry for Discord I'm
going to turn on my camera so you can
see without the stream delay as
well there you go
so this thing here I recently just
got uh oh
wait I think I [__] up OBS where are
you oh
camera wait what did I do
wrong is that it is is that what we're
doing wait what
happened oh you pressed the really funny
button now it's getting silly with it
wait this is so funny I actually can't
see what I did to
this why did I crop the camera all of a
sudden
hello this is so
strange it's not showing it on Discord
it's purely an OBS
thing
um were you accidentally like holding
something down when you were cropping or
like maybe but I don't what it I don't
know what it would be it's cropping that
that's
like I accidentally did that a couple
times too I can't remember what I did to
fix it though well I have a crop on it
so let's see does it do
I'm just making it slowly
bigger bear with
me I just don't want to type a
number yeah someone Chad said Al should
allow you to adjust crap okay let's
let's you're correct I might have been
leaning on
it thank you thank you
Bob okay no I can make this smaller
again anyway I was probably leaning on
it this controller came out recently and
I don't know if you can see it let's
let's bring up the camera a little bit
it's got a really freaky form factor and
you might be like what the [__] sorry
where the [__] is my camera maybe what
the [__] is that supposed to be um it's
supposed to be an ergonomic drum
pad so it's supposed to like have uh
things arranged so you can kind of play
finger druming while resting your your
Hooves in a natural relaxed State and I
can confirm from using this like for a
week now that it actually very much
accomplishes that where the [__] does
this plug in here's my one complaint
with this thing micro USB guys if it's
not USBC in the year ofer 2024 you're
losing you're losing to me but it's fine
because it's a great product anyway
whatever um
let's open a I created a special mapping
on Ableton for
this where did I put it I have too many
folders here here we
go let's wait for it to
I need to get my [__]
together the thing I really like about
this is that there are Toms on both
sides so you can do Tom rolls more
naturally
you can
do so much better than if uh I was doing
it on the keyboard a lot of people know
I do the drums on keyboards usually but
this makes it a lot more fun to do like
blast Beach [__] which I don't really
know if I even have a use for in my
music just yet but um at some point
maybe let's let's get the a a violet
Pony technical death metal Arc going at
some point
but I was trying to do that one five
over four thing which like sounds like
it's going to be a 44 and then it
resets crashes on those sides and
um I have a general mapping for okay so
if I pull up a uh an Ableton drum rack
for example just like one of the basic
808s and stuff
that is the most muted sounding atwe
snare in the
universe with like without being like
fully filtered
Anyway by default the mapping is kind of
funky for like Ableton kit
stuff so I actually created a script
specifically to get this to work with
the Ableton racks and I don't remember
where I put
it give me a second I know what I'm
doing oh it's there we
go so this script will essentially remap
a bunch of different keys to different
places so I have a little switch here
that does two old mappings there's it's
hooked up to a chain
here so if I want one mapping or another
mapping I just flip just flip this
knob it's pretty fun let's close that
[Music]
what's really nice about it is I can
think less cuz a lot of times when I'm
on keyboard I have to remember where
everything is but like here it just
everything's a lot more natural we don't
have to have an eight8 we can
do everyone loves a 909 everyone loves a
good
909 where's my class
808 or 909 is a reference to the drum
machines that these sounds are so this
is a 909
kit by the way fun fact a lot of like
the later process like dubstep and burp
snare are actually just a modified 909
so you take this 909 here and then you
like take a just a really hard
Distortion
lasia so that's how you get like an
early dubstep snare it's just doing that
we can take uh maybe
even make it so the snare is
tighter where the [__] the snare sample
is it's right
here so
much there that's that's like the
original dubstep snare
sounds like Russian hard base no you're
thinking of a
donk you can't afford stuff for squat
yeah one of the things I like to talk
about the most is like how affordable
things can actually get like for example
you don't even have a keyboard you
really don't need one um CU again you
can use your typing keyboard in a lot of
cases especially with Ableton where they
have like a hot key for it and whatever
and not only that but you know you're
often doing stuff with
midi so you're just going to be writing
in stuff right um
and you don't have to use Ableton you
can use like if you're on Mac you
automatically have garage bands where I
started making
music
um let's see
Ableton kind of gives their [__] away
like for free you can get like Ableton
Live light if you just buy something
that comes bundled with it so like if
you want to pick up like a $50 MIDI
controller from somewhere if you buy it
new chances are it's gonna come with
Ableton Live light or something similar
so you automatically have a doll with
that um and then in terms of like all
these all this other internal and
external software there's a lot of
really good [__] um to synth one does is
synth one still here let's find
out because I talk about vital but
there's the unsung hero of synth
one yes okay so you see this here this
synth this this is one of the one of one
of my favorite secret little things this
is a free synth it was originally
abandoned wear a long time ago and then
someone recoded it uh to work on Modern
systems this thing is free just look up
synth one and it sounds great um
[Music]
like we just put this chord progression
here
[Music]
I will admit it's been a while since I
picked this up I'm trying to be like
where do I turn off there we go
[Music]
we can make a rolling Baseline here if
we take this and we just
I forgot I don't have my keyboard
working
[Music]
this
so you're going to get like your Basics
and
stuff I mean synth one's a great virtual
analog kind of
synthesizer um and what's really cool is
that it has a sine wave which a lot of
like analog modeling kind of scents
don't actually have sine waves um
because the average like
circuit um and an analog synthesizer is
going to default to a triangle wave
because it's like a more rounded or it's
it's like a more saturated sine wave and
sign waves are Pure Clean signal so a
lot of analog scents don't have sine
waves but this one
you know they decided to have one it's
not analog obviously but a lot of analog
modeling sense will be like well the
thing we're emulating didn't have a sine
wave so we're not going to put it in but
the whoever developed this was like [__]
that we're going to have a sine wave
um and then of course like every I'm a
I'm a huge show for Vital this is a free
synth as well which is like one of the
best there are fully fledged synthesizer
with lots of different options three
whole oscillators two filters one noise
oscillator
um I I I use this for half my syn sounds
at the most at the least I
mean I feel like I'm really suffering
with my keyboard not working I I want to
play but I
can't but
[Music]
[Applause]
one of my favorite things about um vital
is the random amp modifier
which really [__] with the the
waveforms like uh harmonic amplitudes
and you can roll this dice to like
change the random amp uh values and
settings and you can get sounds like
this
which I
love like without doing any FM you can
like get these really cool bell sounds
and unlike serum uh we have like visual
representations of all the effects and
like everything kind of operates
smoothly I love serum but at the same
time the visualization and vital is like
so key for
me and it has the weirdest [__]
chorus ever like this is so cool
[Music]
I like that
cord [__] fairy ass
thing if I put like a nice turn on this
and then
like it's just a sine wave now but like
at the same
time and then you can make it do a
little do a
little now it's very mysterious
will that work with
this this
way oh I like that what the [__] this
s's pretty good
yeah making a new Pokemon Mystery
Dungeon noises
here oh that's
awesome and that's this is a free syn
there is a free s you can make sounds
like this for free and I
do
um yeah the whole point of me rambling
about this keyboard is you don't need to
spend a lot of money to actually have
what you need to do um I thought maybe
this would improve my my production
experience it really hasn't
so um don't get an expens an expensive
mini controller get a Launchpad or get
like a $100 like aai little [__]
thing or whatever if you can chill out
of little extra get a 49 key
bed right and then vitals free Ableton
will come bundled with one of those
keyboards um or some other doll vitals
free and and here here's the here's the
crazy part um don't have samples to work
with steal
them just steal them um you could take
another song and like take the drums
from it
um or you could find a sample pack out
there and be like oh [__] I don't want
to buy this um I'm going to look up the
torn for this just do
that use a use a
VPN
um but yeah
like you don't need to spend a lot of
money to make music so if ever your
thing is like oh I want to make music
but it's too expensive it's not a lot of
the tools we have at this stage the kind
of stage I'm at um are mainly just to
streamline things that I know I want to
do for example I have a bunch of
different synthesizers and that's
because I'll be like oh I know that um
silen has the sound that I like so I
don't have to spend a bunch of time you
know putting that together I know that
uh I've been really liking this chip
synth sfc synth and it's like you could
technically
emulate this kind of sampling in other
ways but this just streamlines it for me
but if you don't have a lot of money
then you can still you know [__] go
at it raw it's like not a
problem like if you have vital for
example and that covers most of your
like basic
synthesis
um and you can just like yeah you just
steal
[__]
seriously um
like pirate pirate
stuff um get get some samples you like
um and you're
good like there's there's like no reason
not to do it if you're thinking about
doing
it um and speaking of
which uh I say this plenty I say this
plenty but for whoever needs to hear it
um if you're wanting to learn how to
make music uh you have my total
permission to like take my songs and
make music with it I I don't [__]
care that's how Music
Works take my music sample it steal the
drums steal the melody steal whatever
you want that's how this [__] Works um
if you if you have a if there's a song
of mine you like and you're like oh [__]
I like that cord regression just steal
it just like use that in your song just
like take the cord regression use it in
your song that's
normal like oh my God I I constantly
think about that thing in this in the
Skrillex video um where he's with the
doors and like you have the doors
they're kind of a legendary band right
and um and you have the lead going to
the other guy like hey play the Stevie
Wonder pedal play the Stevie Wonder clap
it's like they're referencing other
artists they're referencing other people
they're and they're they're as legendary
as they are and they're still out here
being like play the Stevie Wonder thing
in this song that's like that's life um
I I I
you need to understand that
music is an Ever evolving thing
everything we do as artists doesn't
really exist without any everything that
came before it like obviously thousands
and thousands of years ago someone made
the first like composition someone made
the first painting on a cave wall but
everything after that is derivative you
can't escape that fact um
and this idea of like borrowing from
other work is just as normal as
everything you love and art
like um classical musicians had this
practice of taking um pieces of other
classical compositions from their
contemporaries and just incorporating it
into their into their music is call a
quotation or or something similar and
that was like encouraged among class
musicians
um and then with like you know the rise
and jazz music a lot of people I mean
first and foremost say that that created
this whole culture of Standards where a
lot of people you know they would
actually just perform really welln jazz
songs you know they didn't have to be
composers they just wanted to be you
know play some music but for a lot of
people who do like write jazz music then
they would be out here and like borrow
from other contemporaries as well and
that would be be quoting as well what I
find really fascinating is sampling
changed things because it's now you're
taking recorded material and
incorporating that into your own work
and there's been this whole problem with
it I mean I didn't grow up knowing a lot
of this stuff like it wasn't the culture
I was in at the time I had to grow up
and learn a bunch of this [__]
but um this isn't really a conspiracy
because this just like kind of just like
history but um things like taking other
compos positions and incorporating them
to your own has been so normal for
centuries and then when sampling came
around um specifically in the 80s and
90s there started to De develop
um a stigma against it people are like
oh S no you can't do that sampling
that's bad you can't do that it's like
why though we've been able to do this
for years people have been doing this
for years they've been taking out their
music incorporating it's not just
inspiration it's like taking your
favorite things with
you
um and the thing
is there isn't really too big of a
difference between it being a
composition idea and a recording because
a recording is just like it being
captured in that moment as it
was um and it's an unchanging thing
whereas the composition can kind of
change like over time and whatnot
between different performances
um what's fascinating is that the stigma
against sampling really ramped up uh
with the rise of hip-hop
music
um and house music and electronic music
and dub music
even it's this kind of stuff that
created was stigma formed around um
during the time periods where they
started to
rise and
uh I don't think it's coincidental
that the stigma around
sampling coincided with a
huge spike in black
artists creating
music
um in essence there's just you have to
stop for a moment and
wonder did sampling have this stick all
of a sudden because it's a bad thing or
because black people were succeeding in
a way that made record labels really
scared and to answer that yes no it
wasn't really a stigma it was just this
like it's a scop by record labels
essentially by like white CEOs and
Executives being
like we can't have the [__] now this
this idea that's been around since
forever we can't do it anymore because
now um there's a racial
implication I don't think um there would
have been such an an organized movement
against sampling if it weren't for like
the hip-hop movement I think there's a
lot to be said about how the music
industry has always been
racist and this is such an incredible
evidence of
it now at the same time if you're not
taking your own
work um into account then I mean you
have to remember what you're doing you
should always be transformative with
your work
but everyone usually is doing
that um there's nothing wrong with
wearing your influence on your
shoulder so you shouldn't let that be a
bar of entry into making music
um sampling is super cool it's
anti-corporate um record labels hate it
so which that's why you should do it
because you know anything you do to piss
off record labels is a good
thing they don't work for anyone but
themselves really and um the stigma
against sampling in the past and the
present is usually rooted in
racism you you have you have to give
people the side eye when they when they
talk so much much about
it so just important to
know so anyway steal my [__] take my
music be like I want to make my own song
now I don't have anything else to work
with I'll just use this that's fine you
do that that's life that's that's how
music should be I'm not going to get mad
about
it so again that's
free um if you can't even buy the song
you could YouTube to MP3 you can you can
soulseek you can
torrent like you can just get that [__]
you don't even need to buy the song it's
free so do it you should do it if you
want to make music you should do it it's
really fun right now do it all right
wait what
happened there it
is I mean a lot of my ideas come from
[__]
being having a hugee adoration for the
corono trigger soundtrack let's be
real the Chrono Trigger soundtrack
drives a lot of my
inspiration and ironically this kind of
sounds like Kon
trigger this
thing it needs to be more mono though it
needs to be like
that and then we put a redex on
it there we
go I do see remixes of your music or
things sampling get taken down from
Spotify if that's happening it's not me
I don't issue those at all I don't I
wouldn't know why that's
happening which is funny because there's
someone reuploading my music right now
as is under a different name and that
doesn't seem to get struck at all I've
been like talking with distri kid legal
for a long time and they like they
straight up we're just like I don't know
I don't know I don't know what's going
on so question
mark but I like
this you can make the sound even
like spookier by doing one of these
[Music]
important to note that I don't have any
alt accounts or any like side aliases or
anything everything I make will be uh
under violet Pony unless it's that one
the dash thing I made in
2013 there might be something I'm not
remembering
but probably anything past like 2014
there wouldn't be another name
for I've been looking into these like
like um sample packs from the 9s and I
really like some of the things from
there let me see if I can find where
those
were what what what is a
man miserable little pile of secrets but
enough talk how about
you also I don't know who any if anyone
knows the lore but um
Tracy and I found the original sample
for
bangering so that's a fun one feel a
bait that's the base before the before
the drop comes in it's pretty
great it's one of these
oh yeah it does these some of these are
pretty
crazy so we can put that into the uh
here
I like how I can play that like almost
flawlessly on this [__]
keyboard
so oh this is much slower than I was
remembering it
[Music]
sorry I had to I had to I always have to
hide my screen if I'm saving because
then it shows all
the project I
have which may be fun but that's not yet
soon Monday
so which took um where was
it 961
l oh it's 2 six why did I read
nine
2601 so I took this
sound I made it this
and like I just show the the drum sample
is originally from a 90 sample CD which
you can find on the internet archive for
free
so um get yourself a VPN get yourself
bit Tor and then just grab the internet
archive 90 sample CD
collection and you can have this I'm
live
now part of me wants to do like a fake
backspin so we did the whole
classic one of these
yeah there are plenty instances where I
I make my own drum samples it sort just
depends on the
situation
um and you can kind of make a drum
sample of anything if you just have like
a basic synth sound you can start with
that or if you have like a real life
recording you have you can turn that
into a drums for
example here let's make a drum sample
out of this
bottle made that funny
sound so I'll prepare the sound first
before I do anything with
it maybe
do think I could do a spectral gate but
I don't even have one of those but I
want a spectral gate shout out to
someone who will make a spectral gate
plugin for
me
um so this is a [__] up sound this is
really [__] up
sound but it get some funny texture with
tck
so here's an example we have this
recording I've made so the spectral the
spectral Suite doesn't work for me for
some reason that's why I'm like I want a
spectral
gate so okay come on let me freeze and
flatten I know you know the key command
come on thank you so there's this thing
that was made it's a Max for live
device
um I'm going take this
and oh first I need to chop the
transients I forgot I'm
smart okay I guess a fast way we can
take the transan out of this is just
turn those on slice
mode uh sliced to drum rack
and
then actually I don't remember if
there's a way to truncate
these and I also don't think this is
going to work
anyway okay that's fine we can
just do this the hard
way in which we take all these little
things here
and just do this I
suppose there's probably a more
efficient way to do this but the method
likely escapes my right
now so sep all these little clicky
transients
into
one individual thing
each so truncation is essentially just a
glorified way of saying cropping but in
context it's sort of taking a longer
sound and just taking the specific
smaller sound
so then we go ahead and do uh crop clips
that don't crop all of them now we can
open yes machine and drag these all in
here I
think is it not going to let me do that
do I do these
manually okay I'll do these manually
it's
fine I'm not going to cry because I'm an
adult
but yeah
please so close there we go nope there
we go
so so we have this situation
and then we can take some
noise and
maybe some vocoding separation
and then while recording on a separate
track here we can just make these funny
movements so now we can take that
sound and do some more processing to it
technically you can still just do this
with a noise oscillator but I wanted to
show the example of using like a real
thing force a specific frequency to come
out it's like sort of a
frequency let's make this a basic
limiter
take this
like
that so then
we just do
another thing there and so we have the
sound
I don't like that
actually no I don't want a slider
I mean I could go for a slider right now
but like you know what I
mean
um have an envelope modulate this
Distortion maybe more V coding
and then I kind of like the idea of
leveraging the whole laser situation of
eq3 let's see if that sounds
good not
really maybe a little bit
sounds like a camera shutter with the
delay on top actually a delay sounds
like a fun idea
thank you that was actually a great
suggestion whether you realize or not I
like that sound sounds like Chrono
Trigger clap so this is like a Chrono
Trigger clap now that we've made from
the coke
bottle and you can layer it with
like here
that's s
cool I accidentally modulated
the high end here but actually sounded
good
so we can make that just a separate
version
there are like definitely more efficient
ways of creating drum samples but that's
like an
idea I did do this thing where I created
a rack where it can turn anything into a
snare drum and a kick
from so like for example let's just take
this silly sound I
have and then we can take
um this and then what was it called
instant
snare good
nighto and I can turn that sound it
turns the sound into
this and the way it does that is through
this curve
here and then you put it into this
shifter I don't remember if this thing
is actually doing
anything I don't think it is um no no no
sorry
it no the shifter isn't doing anything I
just forgot to remove it then does this
shape with the noise and shaver box and
then have this
Distortion and then this distortion
and then here's a shifter that's
actually doing something cuz that brings
in there wait is it not oh no it is
sorry I'm freaking out that's pitching
it up that's pitching it up sorry and
then um a high pass for that and then OT
and then K
clip so I can take this sound and make
it
this you can do that with anything you
can take
like this sound
and this is it's turning this into a
snare
now so things like that as well you can
synthesize it
so you can take like vital for
example no
keyboard oh here's the classic like sine
wave noise shaping thing
[Music]
for
and then usually when I'm doing sound
design of this kind I like
to render it out at different stages
because it allows me to pitch things
freely and it's going to be
consistent I like that specific one
[Music]
oh that's why it's making that sound
it's going before the shifter
so you can like make snares like that
this kind of a really thrashy shitty one
because I didn't spend a lot of time on
it
but the [__] is this getting mad at me
for is it mad of that
okay actually don't like the shaper box
layer I kind of just wanted to be
slapper
there we go and then I'll render that
out don't do that don't be no stop being
enormous no that's unusual and strange
go away thanks for that thank
you and then trying this new thing Bloom
it's kind of fun interel
shifting Dynamic
awareness thing
the problem I'm having with this is it
doesn't have that
like frequency in there I'm compensating
so much but it just doesn't have that
frequency so I'm like I could just cheat
and get shaper box over here again with
no Dynamic
noise and just shape it like
so because I want to EQ this noise
only I'm going to group shaver box and
add a separate chain and just make it so
shaver box is noise
only so now shaver Box's noise is on its
on its own track essentially and I can
EQ the noise itself
so that's the frequency I want more of
that so like that that's about I'm
looking for and you can add a tail by
doing one of
these maybe automating it to like
just a slightly more metallic
shape actually don't like the tail or
the limiter so forget those see another
shifter does to this by
going well that's kind of fun but really
not what I'm looking
for I mean
I don't like that either
so I mean you can make a snare out of
like nothing
essentially and then we can just pretend
that like there's another
kick here
we could just turn the snare into a kick
as well
so by starting with that
sound give it some of
this no sub 50
I don't have any highend there so we'll
take Saturn and fake
it where is
I guess we just fake it again with
this flatten that
and then anything can be a high hat
because you just do
this for
and so we made these out of just a sine
wave and some noise
now imagine using more than sine waves
and some noise imagine the kind of [__]
you can do with more Source sounds and
that's why sound design can get to be so
like interesting and complicated because
I mean look how much you can do with
just fundamental
frequencies that's that's all this is
once you start mixing in stuff you
record yourself like you go outside with
your audio recorder start to get some
[__] or you can just use your phone or
whatever bring that back and start
processing it you can make like any drum
sound you want
to the thing I was trying to do earlier
with the coke bottle is much easier done
with just noise check this out so if I
have let's use vital again for
fun all right
this is something everyone should know
if you want to make music you should
know how to synthesize a clap
sample so start with some noise like
this and you modulate the the volume of
that with an LFO see
that well let's make it so it doesn't
keep repeating so it just does
cool now what we do is make a funny
little shape like
this kind of
cool maybe add some variation to it in
different
spots and then speed it
up and then maybe filter it so it's
like that and add some distortion
and that's a clap
sample that's how you make a clap
sound and you can do that with any
Source sound but in this case we're
using noise
and then for the tone you just sweep an
EQ to find the kind of tone you
like and a lot of sounds kind of take
this idea of like different envelope
shapes make different things and that's
like you're clap you can do some
external processing and this is with a
free synnth you can't find a clap sample
make it yourself
here this way and then you can obviously
do external
processing me personally I think I would
want to have
more of
that uh this is like a clap sample like
not a real clap sound if you want a real
clap sound you just
you just do that of course you can layer
the actually here's a tip um if you're
using Ableton specifically here's a way
you can make like quick clap samples
using real claps so I'll just record a
bunch of
these now check this out you make a new
Mini track and you drag this in here and
by default it's going to be like just
play this out
but if you Chang the slice
mode
uh now you can just play this on your
keyboard right or in this case my typing
keyboard and check this out let's delete
the original sound and just do
this and the thing is claps are not
evenly spaced so they're always going to
be kind of messy so that's why you kind
of want to kind of [__] around with them
and Ableton you love this function the
random panning which every time you
press a
note it'll make it left or right a
certain
amount so if you add that just a little
bit with these clap sounds well check
this out you've just made your own clap
sample super quickly Ableton so goed for
this um and we flatten this out and we
can process it I mean Ott always brings
out everything with live recordings if
you're doing quickly
so easy clap sample right
here right that's
awesome I really like that one
especially I'm wondering what it sounds
like in context with this thing
so long story short um I do make a lot
of my own samples a lot of the time um
and there are so many other methods than
just the ones I showed
um which is also not limited
to um recording non- drum sounds you can
easily just go to a drum kit and start
recording those sounds too but there's a
difference between like kind of
synthetic sounding drums and like
realistic sounding drums
and um depending on the context of the
song you're making it might be good to
like figure out what kind of sound you
want so in this case I don't really have
a real drum kit lying around so having a
kind of a break sample like
this works out in my favor because it
kind of has that realistic drum texture
but then you can make it sound more
synthetic by chopping it and
stuff and all of these sounds let me
solo
this even though that's a real drum
recording that's CH chopped up
guaranteed you can still create those
from
scratch um now to make a really good
sounding drum sample it will take time
and usually it's going to involve
multiple things like not just one source
sound for all of the drums I made on
this stream who's here oh Eden's here hi
Eden hi how's it going um for all of the
drum samples I made on this stream I
tried to do it using only one source
sound so like obviously that one clap
was just going to be the coke bottle and
that kick drum was just the snare sound
pitched down and filtered but like if
you're trying to make really full body
drum samples usually that involves a
whole bunch of things synthesizing stuff
recording stuff comping all those things
together and like turning that into one
um specific sound and that can take a
long time like if you're a sound
designer sometimes you might spend like
hours on one two second
sound which is why it's like crazy how
much um you sometimes take sample packs
for granted because like people will
spend hours and hours and hours making
these things that like um producers will
just like not really think very much
about they'll just be like oh that's a
cool sound cool click
done so um which leads me into like some
moments where it's like I have so many
any thoughts about certain samples and
different songs like
um the stream is going to get so
copyright [__] for me doing this but
who cares it's
whatever
um uh every
year I try to recreate the kick drum
from this song Funk call by destroyed
and destroyed of course is like the side
project of space Lis and some other
people excision and whatnot they formed
like this bro step band in like 2014 or
whatever it was um but I was always
fascinated in the kick drum for this
song this Kick Drum in specific
because I love how Punchy it is but
you'll notice the transient is actually
much quieter than the rest of the kick
drum but it sounds so Punchy and not
just that but the layering on it it's so
nice
um that's probably the clearest you're
going to hear it is this
there something like
that it's like so Punchy but it's also
not overwhelming to the mix it's like
definitely kind of squashed
down and it's definitely this it's a
combination of like a kind of a low-end
thump and a symbol playing together at
the same time maybe a high hat but the
way it's mixed together is so
awesome and I don't know if they made it
or if it's a sample from somewhere else
um but they definitely processed it
themselves um and it sounds so good in
the context of the song and elsewhere so
every year I actually take a stab at
remaking it and usually um I don't
really get close cuz I start changing
things a lot anyway but I'm trying to
see what the most recent attempt
was this this was an attempt I had
it still sounds pretty
different but you're getting there I
have no idea if I
am um and then Tracy took a stab at
remaking it and then she put it in her
sample
pack cuz I was talking to her about it
how I remake
it and then let's see if uh I can find
it really
quickly this is it this is this was her
version so that was her version that was
my version and this is the
original so I don't know is is a fun
sound design exercise because we love
this Kick
Drum it's a good Kick
Drum
tasty and it's 2024 and I haven't done
my my um
funkle uh kick remake this year so I
need to do
it anyway uh on the topic of drum
samples there's a lot that goes into
them so I do make a lot of my own
samples but at the same time um it's a
good thing to pull from other sources as
well because there's just going to be
stuff you things you don't think
about by like by default if there's no
other reason have to pull from other
sources it's because there will be ideas
that you just don't think about
otherwise um but in the case for me it's
also convenience CU if I have to make
the kick drum for every single song I
make but from scratch and I have to
spend like an hour on the song's Kick
Drum I'm going to lose my mind so um
it's like situations where if I have a
sound that sounds good already then
we're good to go if I really don't have
a sound that already fits in the context
of something I will make it but but if I
already have it lying around there's no
reason to to make a new one unless
there's a tweak I want to make in which
case usually you do that in the
postprocessing section anyway
so um hopefully that was good
long-winded answer to your question or
some whatever if it was a question or
not I don't
remember and in this case I'm like I
like Baseline for this and it would make
sense to make it myself because I can't
really think of a preset in my mind that
fits the bill
so I think what I want to do is I want
to fake like an old sampler and I'll
I'll show you what I mean by that first
I'll open
vital and I'm going to make a single
base stab out of
this so let's makebe a re base kind of
sounding
[Music]
thing headphone users and sub wver Habs
do you like this
sound yeah oh my God
[Music]
this is this is for the headphone un sub
for
users it's purring the base is purring
at you so we'll have this sound and
maybe we'll get like
a one of these in here and have it kind
of dance around where's my pulse width
[Music]
oh let's actually change the
filter to be
[Music]
so here's the thing what I mean by
faking the sampler is of course I can
just keep this patch as
[Music]
is and just play it however I want to
but what I want to do is fake like an
old sampler
like just take one piece of recording
and throw it
into this
thing which has a completely different
vibe to it than just playing it on the
normal instrument
[Music]
let's turn this
off and then let's turn the loop on
which is where right
[Music]
here so now it's instead of sounding
like a synth patch I made now it sounds
like a cheap like sampled instrument for
the Dreamcast or whatever
let's make sure to tune it to
C so it's an
FP R not is an FP it means it needs to
go down one two three four five six
notes uh we do
there oh that was
insan oh c
how old does that VST so again whoever
was like like asking for budget stuff
this is a a sampler that actually came
out this year this came out this year um
just search up amigo sampler it's
available for
$10 so get it
immediately this it's $10 there's no
reason not to get it it's awesome
we're going to also put our sketch
cassette on the master to make it sound
from this
to this
we going to also try and make an fx beat
here so now I've sampled this into it on
track
oh that's a little bit sick what the
hell
whoa hold the
phone what the [__]
it's making kind of phy
too that is like a little bit too sick
and I'm really
like was not expecting it to sound that
cool it's a crazy
slow hold on I want to get the girls who
are Wizards Harps Accord
it's not actually that
one it's actually this one
[Music]
guys I'm sorry I didn't realize I was
actually going to make heat this evening
my
apologies hey yeah yeah yeah
yeah okay but now I need to eat their
all the secret sauce though cuz
like unfortunately because of what's
going on right now we have to go to the
wizard sample pack can you believe that
exists do you guys want the secret sauce
the the Wizard sample pack like this
this is on some game that like no no one
else is on right now like no one gets it
but like I know you will get
it oh no where's the wizard simple pack
no
no you're real you're real you're real
there's the wizard there she is no
you're lying here she is here's the
here's the wizard sample
pack you must stop them we shall not
falter in the face of fear yo yo he's
crazy she's crazy they're
crazy the wizard of pronouns all right
give me that
[__] hold on check this out
I get pushed on the swing huh me when I
get pushed on the
swing let's chop this really
quickly not not not not
we shall
not we shall not
the
of we shall
notter
of
not we shall
notter
of we shall not
okay wait hold up hold up hold up this
is actually crazy I'm freaking out a
little bit this awesome all
right uh where's that ch
we
shall we
shall
shall we shall not fter falter
wait
this
one we
shall in the face
we shall
not face face Fe we shall not falter in
the face of
fear we shall not fter in the
face we shall not
we
shall in the
face we
shall
shall we
shall wait when it goes to the Y we put
a delay on this one it's like kind of
hyped so we do
this oh [__] oh
[__] we shall
not in the
face we shall
not the
not in the
face we shall
not shall not oh [__] wait I'm getting
another idea I'm getting another idea
how do we do this we go do we go next
this we need to find the flute sound
from
Nexus all right we
[Music]
could shall
not in
the we shall
not the face face of Fe we shall
not in the face
of we
shall we
shall
shall why is it so Grand that's a really
good
question not quite what I was looking to
do I wanted this
[Music]
sound so what I going to do is I'm going
to
do just take this flatten that out mini
track the fact that I'm doing this with
my typing keyboard is like also like
giving me flashbacks to the
war so now we can do this like a really
cheap sounding sample
away we shall
not in the
face we shall
not
the we shall
not in
we shall
not in the face
of we shall
not in
the we shall
the
shall we shall
knock in the face
of we shall knock
in the
face we shall
not in
the
shall we
shall in
the we
shall
shall I forgot overdubbing was
on
shall
shall we shall
KN
shall the
of we shall
not in the face
we shall not get
my we shall
not in the
face we shall
not in
the there that's
better we shall
not the
face we shall
not in the face
we shall
not okay so what next here we've got
um got the flute we've got a bunch of a
bunch of um very medieval wizardy
sounding
instruments so how do we how do we
progress this we have the wizard she's
doing great she's singing it up we shall
not
in the
face we shall
not in
the put the grand horns in there do you
guys want that do you want the
horns I mean what we could do is we
could use as like a sort of climactic
section okay let's see so about that um
Delux track from girls for wizards
um one of the albums I was really
inspired by to make girls who are
Wizards is um uh none of this is real by
DJ Roswell if any of you are familiar um
which is like this wizard hip-hop album
but it's like the something that's it's
one of the coolest ideas in the universe
is like um they've they wrote the album
to be like um a Rog like so you're
supposed to play the album on shuffle
with a cross fade of like 5
seconds and so every time you listen to
the album it's different it's like it's
like a rogue leg and you get different
like enemies and bosses in different
sections it's like one of the coolest
ideas for an album ever hold on let me
let me pull it up for
you let's go ahead and where's my OBS
there we
go but it's a big inspiration for the
girls who are Wizards
project so um none of this is real by DJ
Roswell this is an incredible album of
essentially what's wizard it's just
wizard hip-hop
music and
um I me let's just give it a skim really
quickly here's the
introduction will
be of five or
six or sh be
so this this demo we're doing over here
is like kind of reminding me of some of
this [__] like let's do uh this one
also any of the ones with the explicit
Tags I'm I'm sorry I'm not going to play
play cuz I if it's the one I'm thinking
uh probably not appropriate for the
stream but this is an incredible album
um and for me whenever I listen to the
this album It's always on shuffle and
the thing I get excited for is just
waiting for Black Knight to come on it's
like that's what I every every time this
album comes on it's like okay we're on
shuffle mode one one's Black Knight
going to play It's like a journey to get
to this song and I'll I I'll play the
whole thing it's one of the coolest
songs ever the um sample at the
beginning here is actually from chess 3D
like one of the old chess 3D games so um
that's what this is a reference to this
is an incredible
song forgive me Majesty for intruding
unannounced not at all tonight today I
tilted with a black knight from AAR land
and unseated him roundly with my Lan's
blow feet worthy of bosses why not take
the credit because I was sneakily
attacked by his Ally and soon dumped in
the dirt
myself oh my God all that enter is mad
enter is mad
and just hits you with
the Black
[Music]
Knight Black Knight
black
[Music]
light black
light night
light light
like unfortunately that's like the
sickest and most hype thing in the
universe is to start the song off with a
chess 3D sample and then the subversion
of like I fought the Black Knight but I
love but it's like oh that's awesome
where he seems so down because I was so
dumped in the dirt myself and then it
hits you like that's crazy what are they
doing what are you doing this is awesome
this is an awesome album anyway um so
the reason why I brought this up is
because of course this whole situation
of wizard hipop um is like coming up but
another reason is because um on band
camp DJ Roswell has a bunch of like um
what are called like expansion sets like
expansion cartridges for this album and
it's like more stuff like this but it's
like not from the the original album and
my thought was like with girls who are
Wizards I wonder if I should do like a
like an expansion set of bsides that are
just kind of like random ideas I had
because um I had this idea when oops
that's the wrong one I had this idea
when I was making this like Earthbound
inspired song the other day just for fun
I was like I kind of want to like finish
it and post it but I don't know where it
would be
appropriate and um so it's this I need
to get my [__] together so it's like
it's like bsides but it's like an a DLC
expansion cartridge and it would just
make like be free or whatever like you
wouldn't pay money for it but just this
idea of like an expans an expansion set
and I think the stuff for grow were
Wizards it would be like kind of battle
themes and like General Overworld themes
it it' be super like chill and like not
like super polished or anything but um I
made this the other day it well just
sound like the most [__] up um most
like the most [__] up Earthbound song
ever I made this
like it's supposed to sound so goofy and
like incorrect
[Music]
y
it's just so weird it just like doesn't
make any sense but I kind of like it
I that's one of my favorite sounds
that it's
awesome any so I was like I can finish
that put in the expansion set etc
etc anyway we have this we shall
not in the
face
shall the
face we shall
KN in the
face where are horns we go On's in brass
was these ones I
[Music]
think we shall
not in the
face we shall
not
not in the
face we shall
not
the we
shall in
the so what I'm thinking is this could
go on for twice as long for this
riff and then
we shall
not in
the
shall we
shall
the we
shall the the face of here we shall
not in the face and then also we can
give this the sketch cassette treatment
where we do
this this is something I've been doing
on girls War Wizards a lot is making
this more mono and then putting it
through
like this makes it sound like it's going
through like the shittiest VHS tape in
the
[Music]
world in the
face we shall not
in the
face we
shall in the
[Music]
face I have this idea as well to do like
I'm just going to sample the song
slightly
[Music]
so it's really cool is we can make like
an effect sample out of
this so we can have this reversed like
this
we
shall I could take the inverse of that
we just take the one that goes forward
put
this this and then we put a shifter on
it let's put a shifter on
it let's use the classic chroma effect
what is this oh we are in DP okay so
take chroma expand this out do this D
Minor we could take this sound and make
it
this
shall shall not I think we're in D
actually I think I just pitched this
wrong yeah we are in D never mind
so then we can expand this make this
Sizzle a little bit by doing one of
these I need to be Sizzle I need to
sizzle more we'll change the digital
future high cut let this ring out change
this to ping pong mode and do this and
see how this
sounds cool I like that and we flatten
that so it's just an audio file with no
effects on
it so then we get
this shall not
shall
not shall not see this is this is like
sound design it's like the craziest [__]
i' made these out of the song
itself which is so fun we shall
not in the
[Music]
even crazier is we can even make a
sweeping sound effect with this watch
let's sample this again we shall
not and then let's take this and put
that sample in a
sampler oh that's kind of crazy that for
that speed but anyway um so here's what
you can do we'll change this from a
simpler to a sampler and then we go over
to pitch an oscillation we're turn on
oscillator and this is actually an FM
thing and we can change this to noise
mode and just turn the sample into noise
like
this and so now we just have this noise
here made purely from the the
song we
can then take that into a sampler and
then Loop
it and then let's high cut it I'm going
to use the eq3 to give it making a
little bit more lasery
and then watch
this that's how you do a noise
sweep so let's
make a nice one
so we
modulate I cut off frequency like this
actually let's do the that one
separately so I'm going to duplicate
this so we have two
copies and for this one and clear the
modulation that we did and
then the Reon why I do that want see if
we can
dude this pitch modulation with
it flatten both of
these come on you know how to do that
good job
I can make this even more wizardy
sounding
by taking a
Redux doing this with
[Applause]
it
e e
[Applause]
that's a pretty cool
sound so then we can use that as our
downshifter right
here right here
shall in
the shall
not okay let's build this out I'm going
to just give us some space here I'm
going to start with
this let's actually group these first
it's in the melody section
drums drums
drums some
[Music]
faces in the face of focals cuz I'm top
we shall not
[Music]
noer
effects this is typically how I group
everything using effects bases germs
Melody vo for vocals base on bottom or
actually drums on the bottom followed by
Bas effects and then Melody and box and
then we can color code these by being
like I don't know what's some wizard
[__] blue yellow white
green more more that green no not that
green that green no I disagree that
one's fine and then um maybe purple for
like a
robe like that those some wizard colors
and color card everything to that so
then
let's bring that base in quiet
I'm going take this and we shall not
fter in the face of
fear we shall not fter in the face I'm
going make a filter group that can turn
off and on
face
not
so I can turn this group off and on so
if I want it to be filtered I just leave
this off we shall not and then I want
the filter to be on and just click that
button oh wait and then we can take
this oh [__] yep yep it's getting
crazy and and then we put this
here let's strip this down to have less
crazy stuff going
on let's get those horns out for a
sec let's take this FX thing here
let's bring that flute in
here so now we're building out the track
and sounds like this
where' the flute go
[Music]
should take out so okay I have these two
drum beads going it's
this and this
I want the brighter one to take
precedence over this one so in this case
I'm going to take a compressor I'm going
to take glue compressor we're just going
to say side chain to track 18 side chain
18 so
now so now the lower
drums duck out of the way for the
brighter drums
why not just meet the less bright drums
because I want want the bright drums to
be there because without them it sounds
like
this you could
just turn this
up but I want it to have more
syncopation I'm also curious flipping
the phase would do with these lower
drums and it sounds slightly better on
the low end so I'll take it
[Music]
let me
just take
[Music]
in the face of face of Fe we shall not
in the face of
Fe we shall
not so we can take the filter off these
drums or this base here as
well shall
not in the
face in the of Fe we shall
notter in the face of
here we shall
not we shall
not
face we shall
not the
the
of face of
of we shall
not in the face
not in the
face we shall not
so that's how you can take just this one
Loop we made and like expand it out into
a song structure so it sounds like this
now
oh
we shall
not in the
face we shall
not in the face the face the
we shall
notter in the
face we shall
not the
not in the
face we
shall we shall
notter in the face
of we
shall so that's like the basic structure
that we can work with um something you
notice is that with some of these
extended sections it gets a little bit
boring and monotonous it's
like just this Baseline and this
progression over and over and over
again and so something you can do is
fill it out with more like hand played
stuff and like ambient ideas
um something in my mind I'm thinking of
is like this let's
[Music]
see doing this and have an arpegiator
for
[Music]
now I'll take that you might think okay
well that actually makes it sound really
annoying well there's there's there's a
Joker's trick here we're need to change
this to
milliseconds and have this slowly become
slower right
and we can slowly bring this in with a
filter like this
and I can also have a pan left and right
around your head so if you're listening
to the stream in Stereo you're going to
hear this effect pretty profoundly
and we can also make a nice little horn
sounding thing
[Music]
w
wowowowow
[Music]
w
oh e
[Music]
because I'm working with this uh typing
keyboard and keep hitting the wrong
notes so I'm going here
[Music]
[__]
it's better
[Music]
and then I feel like a monologue of some
kind from The Wizard would be great
there whoa
whoa wielder of the sacred flame I
cannot do that protect the
gates I cannot
move back to
the fire
be fire be wait a minute back to the
Citadel there we go
no um by fire
be so we're having like this internal
dilemma from The Wizard fire
Beed
be back to the Citadel
time fall back to the
[Music]
Citadel my fire be fall back to the
Citadel
[Music]
by fire be fall back to the
C we shall
not and then we can have like a little
[Music]
technically I can lock this to be in
like the key of the song The Key of the
song
is in D D Minor I think
[Music]
that's kind of video gamey
right so now we
go by fire be fall back to the citel
[Music]
by fire be fall back to the Citadel
shall not oh I also have another idea in
which we take this brass section from
let's go back to the Nexus
brass can we
make this get
stronger
[Music]
this turn that into its own
sample some crazy ass like tension here
like
this
shall we
shall
the shall all right so this is the kind
of composition we have now
[Music]
by fire
be back to the C
[Music]
we shall
not in
the we shall
not we shall
not in
the we shall
not the face of face
of we shall
notter in the face
[Music]
we shall
not we shall
not
the we shall
not oh see here's another example of
like let's take this make this
resampling and then we'll just play this
out we shall not
you hear that
tail you might think oh yeah that's cool
that's a Reverb but you know what it can
be instead you record that tail reverse
it and suddenly we have an effect sample
that can do
this we shall
not you can also sample it more and
let's go over here
we shall
not that's actually a cool bside
background right there so goes
like put that in the second half over
here we give it its own track and
process it a little bit
that sounds kind of like shitty on
purpose because it's like see weird
samples like obviously there are ways to
like polish this a lot more but it
sounds really cool like just kind of
roughed up a bit we shall not
in the
face we shall
not in
the we shall
not in the
face we shall
not shall not oh you know what else I go
get here is like a like a big tolling
Bell like a
bong sounds super
[Music]
cinematic shall
in we shall
not
the we shall
not in
[Music]
the I wonder for
whom for the unfortunately we shall
not in the face of
we shall
not we shall
not the
face we shall
not anyway that's the secret sauce is
the wizard sample pack you go crazy
doing that
[__] what's what's important to note as
well is
that
um the way the sample packs are on this
website is they're organized by
popularity by default which means
that you must stop
them magic
me apparently this one of the wizard
crying is like one of the most popular
samples I'm like why why are you being
so mean to her stop that's enough why
are you doing
this this is apparently what number is
this is like in the top 20
SES
apparently people really like this one
the wizard cannot Escape eternal torment
I know it's very unfortunate however um
we must not falter in the face of fear
and
stuff
such uh you can use my music for
animation practice
another song coming yeah I'm not likely
wizard Rave hold
on okay you know what
a
I wonder if this will work
that's not what I was expecting
[Music]
w
a
oh
[Music]
this is his heart rate cuz he can't stop
cing
for
he a
he
[Music]
hello Let Me freeze flatin please thank
you
[Music]
a
this is the kick drum of the universe if
you didn't know
[Music]
a
d
I think you're you're you're out of here
I I don't know what's going on to you
but I feel like you're out of
[Music]
here e
this is like the most [__] up kick
I've ever made from a wizard
sniff because I've made a lot of
those I think we just need to get a side
chain in
here uh call that cuz I don't remember
[Music]
I don't know what goes through my mind
I'm a little bit like insane in the head
[Music]
and then you know what we can do is
using the same wizard sample we
can do this
[Music]
n a
please don't ask me where my head's
going with this it's going to turn into
something I promise
[Music]
n
nah
[Music]
a
he
e
a m
he
all right let's turn it into a snare
[Music]
he
and then we can take that snare and turn
it into a high hat
and something you can do is if you have
noise like this and you want it to sound
more like a symbol or a high hat just
take random harmonics like
this and just boost them like
this that automatically makes it sound
like a high hat or a symbol or
something I'm putting a like a hard
compressor after it helps to keep the
Peaks from actually freaking out
and you can like change them around like
oh that sounds pretty high hat
like let's bring that
[Music]
he he
and we can take another version of this
high hat
here bring it down
here maybe add some shifter to make it
sound more metallic
and that's our open high hat so our
pattern goes like this
[Music]
he
and just a reminder this is all just
made with this
sound we duplicate this so we can turn
this into something else
[Music]
he
isn't this just
uh um Benny or is it Benny Basia
satisfaction who made satisfaction
[Music]
he
does anyone know if Ableton sampler has
a multivoice thing like making a super
saw out of this
[Music]
CU I don't remember and I don't know
where to find it
[Music]
he
actually let's make this lead go just
thing crazy
[Music]
Co
he
[Music]
n
let's do this over
[Music]
oh
he
[Music]
anyway that's wizard
music so we made that and we made this
one probably G to end the stream in a
moment but I'll play this one more
time for
everyone just for fun
[Music]
by fire be call back to the Citadel
we shall
not in the
face we shall
not we shall
not in the face
of we shall
notter in the face of face
of we shall not
in
the
shall we shall
not in the face
ofar we shall
not that's kind of really sick baffled
at how quickly you work to be honest um
what's funny is you're also seeing me
worked in a Nerf
work environment because one keyboard's
not working that's what I've been using
the typing keyboard to play all the
notes and two I've been limiting my
sample usage to just mainly being like
essentially vital and just like the
source samples I've been using like if I
let myself use every single instruments
that I had and every like s like sample
source that I had and like I started
doing like vocals and everything like
that then then you'd see me working at
my Peak like speed
um so right I'm like nerfing myself I'm
I'm I'm working on
a working on the patch notes soon so we
we'll take the Nerf make it a buff real
soon I don't know it just the it's it
seems to be like the popular thing to
like when I do stream to make music in
like funny limiting ways but
realistically if I let myself use
everything then we'd be going a lot
faster and have like much cleaner
results automatically but you know the
challenge has been how do you make a
song out of wizard sniffs how do you
make a song out of uh a sine
wave
Etc
so um I'll end the stream
shortly um but I'll leave a few minutes
to chat if you want to just we could do
we just ask some questions we could have
a little Q&A
before I before I head off because I was
not reading chat a
lot and so I will
now also funny is uh anyone has been
around on this channel for a long time
know I I've been trying to figure out
how to stream properly for a long time
when I was back in California this the
they we'd [__] up all the time like
nothing worked
ever so um it's kind of weird that I can
can stream now and like no there's like
no problems like no connection issues or
like no like whatever like everything's
just like Smooth ciling it only took
like I don't know I started streaming
like in 2015 so it only took nine years
but
yeah uh yes this VOD will be on patreon
and I'm going to post both the Beats I
made on stream to patreon as
well um I'm probably not going to finish
the wizard Rave one but this one the we
shall not falter I might finish that and
put it on like a DLC beat tape for girls
for wizards
so
um I lost my place where was I uh girls
who are Wizards is coming out hopefully
near the end of this month u i could be
like super transparent I have um like
four songs to finish I think but
uh shouldn't be too difficult I've
gotten the hardest songs out of the
way
um and I have demos for everything so
it's just like just finishing everything
that I have and we'll get it up and I'm
also thinking of uh not the next CD
release but maybe the one after we'll do
girls rare Wizards CDs but um I'm
prioritizing a different project for the
next CD released so um we'll figure that
out
uh I was in I was in the Bay Area I was
in San
Francisco is in the Bay Area
for uh 20 essentially 21 years and then
I'm I moved
here
to huge Oregon so many trees shout out
oron do you know your keyboard is dead
dead or it's just acting up today so I
was saying earlier in the Stream that
sometimes if I don't turn on my my
keyboard and boot up
Ableton um when I first start my
computer if I it will not recognize it
if I do it later for some
reason and I and to fix it I would have
had to restart the computer and I didn't
notice the issue until stream started so
I was like okay I guess we're just going
to use the typing keyboard it actually
worked out the I can only play like I
can play literally less than one octave
cuz it's like I think C is down here so
it's um c c Shar d dsharp
e f f sharp G G sharp a a
sharp and B C so I can play one whole
octave on
here and that's it and the change
octaves I have to press Z or X I'm I'm
so used to it
though typical math osj no Mac sorry um
it's actually a problem with the
Novation keyboard because I plugged in
another mini controller and it worked
fine will they be will there be more top
five videos after this yes I've been
I've been seeing some people being like
Oh my God now that girls are Wizards
girls for wizards happening means that
top five videos is going to end um but
no
um vid's going to get back to work after
girls were Wizards and keep making top
five
videos
um I don't know if I talking about this
on the stream before but the funny thing
is like top five videos is was
technically like a really it was like a
therapeutic thing for me cuz originally
um my parents kicked me out and like
were essentially like uh abandoning me
in
2019 and um in the process of being
kicked out I needed something to
like occupy my brain while all this like
like shitty stuff was happening and for
whatever reason I just decided to make
the first top five videos
episode and it was like ironically a
part of the healing process was making
top five videos like it was some like I
don't know grieving thing I guess uh I
was so absurd and so silly that it was
able to like definitely keep my mind
occupied and I just like kept watching
the first one over and over again just
like laughing a [__]
ton um and top five videos as a series
The whole idea was this fascination with
like videos and like how how and why
people make
them a lot of times the premise with
these with these top five videos uh
episodes is like picking out videos and
like obviously like joking around and
having some like funny word play and
just making it like a a parody on like
um you know top top 10 content on
YouTube um but like make it really
shoddy and like by a channel that would
have like 10 views you know that's the
kind of idea um but the other part of it
is like this fascination with the videos
themselves cuz it's like there's always
like a story behind every like thing
like I think so much about like those
like almost autogen at videos like the
Naruto funny summoning animal
thing um it's like someone had to make
that someone had to do that and have a
reason for it and I don't know what that
reason is or what the purpose is or any
of this is cuz the reasons differ for
everyone and it's like I'm so interested
in that concept of like someone took the
time to make Naruto summoning funny
animal whether it's like autogenerated
or like they made it themselves and like
filled it with tags like the thing with
top five videos is this fascination with
like people why people do that and like
how they do it and like what what it's
for it's so interesting to me so that's
usually what what top five videos is
doing is it's like just kind of not
really deconstructing but having this
like existential crisis over like
videos and um the best part is that uh
vid top five videos the character
I came up with her like hours before it
uploaded the 50,000 subscribers video I
was just like as a last minute thing I
was just like maybe I should make a like
character for the top five videos voice
and so like an hour before I finish the
top the the top the sorry the 50,000
subscribers video I just like scribbled
her with my mouse in like Affinity photo
and there there she was like I didn't I
didn't spend any time designing her I
was just like whatever came to my head
first um and so I actually really love
top five videos as a series and the
character
um and what's funny is like the series
is so like [__] up and weird it's
going to like filter a lot of people out
like not everyone's going to like get it
or find it funny some people are going
to find it super annoying and that's
chill they can find it annoying that's
that's fine but for the people who like
get get it and find it funny um it's
probably one of my favorite things that
I do outside of music is the top five
video series like I love it so
much so to dedicate more like of my
personal art to this character and this
idea is like kind of important to me in
a silly way like it's s it's so silly
like no amount of like um working this
prolific idea is going to make it not
silly like it's it's still silly but I
love it cuz
um obviously some of my favorite art is
like Earthbound and undertale where they
tell like really serious stories but
like through really funny methods of
doing it like Earthbound and undertale
or games that are going to make you cry
your eyes out even though the jokes they
make in them are so [__] stupid and
like left field nonh
humor but like Earthbound you're going
to start crying because an insect is in
your arms and telling you the secrets of
the universe and you don't stop to think
why is this tiny insect speaking to me
instead you're like I want you to live I
want you to live so bad
um and that's like that's like my whole
deal it's like girls who are Wizards
it's silly but it's also a serious story
and top five videos it's silly but
there's still like something real behind
it and I love that cuz like it's
definitely going to filter people out
someone's going to be like oh this is
stupid I don't care this is just this
this is just that that's fine they're
they're allowed to not get
it but for people who do get it this is
for
us and I love
it yeah it does it does it does make sad
moments sadder and happy moments happier
and that's because like when you're
laughing and you're like smiling and
having a good time it opens you up to a
lot of other emotions too like loosens
you to like be ready for something else
I mean even if after that explanation
you don't get it that's like still fine
and still makes sense that it doesn't
make sense because it's literally
absurdest humor in the most modern
sense so long story short yeah there
will be more top five videos that that
is not going away um I had this funny
idea to
like um
I had this funny idea for top five
videos 11 it wouldn't be called top five
videos 11 it would be it would be called
top five videos one two top five videos
one but the sequel to one so it's top
five videos
top top five videos one
two and it would just like compound like
that like I I love I love recur
recursion is one of the funniest things
to me in the the
universe and which is which is why
that's such a prominent thing in top
five videos is
just when things are like when there's
like recursion that's like also
extremely arbitrary and kind of an
oxymoron it's like really funny to me
because you actually have to put a lot
of effort into doing it but then making
it sound so natural just like kind of
[__] people's heads so I love
that yeah we're never going past top
five videos 10 it's just going to be one
through 10 two three four
what happens when we reach top five
videos 10
10 no I should do it like apple does
things and do the top five videos X top
five videos X
pro oh that's terrible oh it's
awesome yeah top five videos XPR 1.5 HD
Remix we're just going to get to that
point top five videos Galaxy s20 yeah no
you're right no wait yeah yeah yeah oh
someone's on to the right idea we got to
we got to name the top five videos
according to the way like Sony names
their headphones top five videos
hx300 5D
exactly top five videos Big Sir so true
there's so many things we could do I
feel like once we get to top five videos
10 10 we're just going to like make the
numbers like really [__]
up um numbers as opposed to normal ones
yeah like top five videos Sigma 3 Theta
million right
yeah top five videos Vista top five
videos Longhorn even that sounds like an
musk baby it really does which is what
makes it even
funnier he would do that top five videos
um
Ubuntu top okay this this is a long one
top five videos Samsung 50inch Class 4K
Crystal UHD du 8,000 series HDR that's
kind of
crazy we could have top videos but
strictly in the console like the
computer
terminal um by the way um in the top
five videos series at one point I
started to introduce like the the the
playhouse the place that vid is trapped
in
and uh I can actually explain what that
is it's like this place in the Bay Area
area this like
defunct like
party place and I've been
there and it feels really surreal
because it's like kind of like this
empty warehouse but it's like filled
with like like jumpy jumpy houses and
like arcade machines but like the entire
place looks empty otherwise oh my God
it's the back room it's like in real
life back rooms but like the Filipino
version cuz that's what it is it's it's
it's like it's like a it's like Filipino
Chuck-E-Cheese I'm not kidding I really
want to go it's
gone that's what I'm saying is it's
defunct now it's
gone um that's [__] up what's funny is
because of where I lived on the bay area
which has like an extremely high
Filipino and that's why I'm Filipino cuz
I was
like my my grandmother was like we're
going to go here where all the other fos
are going and then I was born and then
that made me Filipino which is
interesting that's why Filipino but
what's crazy is how everything there
they'll have like the Filipino something
like the Filipino Chuck-E-Cheese they'll
have the the Filipino fried Fred
Filipino KFC it's the jollybee is
there um we'll have like the Filipino
Corner Store like that no you're I mean
jolli is far superior than KFC but like
it's technically Filipino KFC
um and to make the lore even deeper um
top five videos as a character is is
Filipino
um uh vid's full
name is gwenith Vita
Fernandez and you can take that to the
bank you can take that gay to the bank
take that gay to the bank
yeah vid's name is vid vid's name is
gwenth Vita
Fernandez it is it is on the character
ref and the reason uh what the reason
why it's like super funny is because uh
that it means that she's
Filipino and Badd is still in call so I
get to show this with it in still
here um baty made this for me
so it's
real it's it's very real can't see oh
yeah oh my
goodness this is this is for pride
month so um Filipino Pride so we're
we're going
crazy so that's that's that's the big
lore is the reason why everything's
bad's laughing evily the reason why like
top five videos is like so freaky is
because she's just Filipino that's
why
so that's like the lore drop it's all of
this is just because she's Filipino
that's
it as the Filipino I could confirm we
are freaking we kind of
are um
Filipinos are
like
they're it's it's they're technically
Asian but they're feel like so far away
from mainlands that they've they've
they've become one with some other
entity and it's just like the the
Philippines is like Asian Ohio I never
mind what what am I saying what help
what that was weird what that was weird
the
hell it's Asian Ohio
are videos freaky because she's Filipino
or is she Filipino because the videos
are
freaky I don't
know I'm trying to figure that out I
mean it's like did the chicken or the
egg come first neither it was just the
videos came
first Asian with a Latin twist I mean a
lot of people do say that um the
Philippines is like the Mexico of Asia
because like Spain colonized
it and like Filipinos have a lot in
common with like
Mexicans and some Filipinos speak like
fluent
Spanish as well which is also
interesting so they're like Phil the
Philippines is weird
dude I I
I mean my my grandmother was kind of
freaky too she's kind of awesome
though she introduced you to Pokemon so
yeah my my grandmother my Filipino
grandmother introduced me to Pokemon
that's why I like
Pokemon uh she knew about Pokemon before
I
did so that's that's that war she like
you know who would love this
me you
you would love this because you're
Filipino thanks
Grandma there's no way around this did
you into it or your sibling as
well um I don't think my sibling was
born oh was that early it's quite early
yeah
interesting my grandmother played
competitive Pokemon she might have in a
in a you know what she may have kept
that from me
but
maybe the Deep
L would you ever put more than five
videos in a top
no not not even
slightly use double team
now I don't think I I'm not fast enough
for
that top top 4.9 videos well now you're
getting to this question is what what
how do you define a video and can it be
is like a Boolean value is it a video or
just not a video or is there something
that's like slightly a video because for
example a gif slf yeah could be like
half a
video if it's if video is like some sort
of
like compounding definition but if it's
something that is either a video or
isn't a video then we can't have 4.9
videos because it's a
static like kind of Boolean variable
she C me into Pokemon so I can train to
catch the hell
Beast here here's here's another thing
is the hellbeast is going to get loose
again the hellbeast is going to be a
recurring antagonist in the series
spers like crun or tyberius does not
actually have that thing unlock
that's the best thing I that's the best
way I can put
it Trixie did you notice your subscriber
count did I notice my subscriber count U
people have been saying 666 in the in
the
chat oh yeah oh God damn it guys I
missed 66 666 I was waiting for it it it
went by so quickly I mean I could expect
inspect
ele oh it says 66 680 for me now
we got too many subscribers can everyone
unsubscribe no don't
please please
don't I mean do what you want it's your
life um sorry this is like a funny thing
but like occasionally um YouTube will
show me recent subscribers on my channel
but it organizes them by like most
popular so the people with the most
subscribers first show up on the recent
subscribers panel but every now and then
YouTube will just like forget that it's
supposed to organize it by most
subscribers so sometimes there would be
like a random like person with like one
or or zero subscribers just show up it's
like YouTube's just decided to show me
like just some random guy today just on
my my Creator homepage just like hey
here's a guy hope you like it I'm like I
don't know who that is thank you this
this this this this guy subscribed to
you thanks
yeah it's it's so funny right now it's
showing me ordered by most subscribers
but I just love when it just shows me
someone with zero subscribers it's like
here they are it's like oh my God no way
I can't wait they're
smurfing I can't stop thinking about
that now because you said
that I was playing be swm simulator and
I was noticing someone with five BS was
macroing and I was like why would they
be doing that and Eden said to me
they're probably
smurfing what do you
mean no but but I'm right they no you
you are that's what makes it so funny
but like the idea of saying smurfing for
that is like so funny like smurfing in
beast beast worm simulator like for what
I
just I just think I just think about
that um the sequence of Smurf fet
turning into evil oh my God wait I have
it
wait thank goodness send it I need to
find it it's one of the best gifts
ever sorry I've just squirrel past
birthday birthday and birthday HD to
find
it did I save this a while ago I have to
go through my there it
is yeah open it yeah open it thank you
what this
one let's
go he's
emo oh God Danny you're you came here
I'm literally about to say go to bed
is it showing on the webcam hold on I
need to pull
OBS oh my God it actually
is I could technically like crop the
screen out from the camera but like it's
kind of
funny I you know what it is funnier this
way it also like funny cuz it's like a
curved monitor so like she's kind of
doing one of those kind of
surrounding she's encompassing my space
get her out
please she's so
evil what you CR floing
over
yeah no it's
true
okay anyway thanks everyone for being
Filipino
um I'm gonna end the stream now this
will be this will be on patreon the VOD
will be on patreon and so will both the
songs I
made every the carry and
Smurf I have to take away I have to take
away Violet lore from everyone they
saying the damnest
things Smurf Flo no that's enough
everyone everyone
out get out i' I've opened the door you
may now leave thank
you have a have a good it's actually
like 5:00 a.m. for me so I'll have a
good morning even though I'm sleeping
good
night no don't say flare for the
Smurf don't say that anything but
that okay very
well hi